MANAGEMENT RIGHTS LETTER 

Preliminary Note

The assets of a pension plan subject to the Employee Retirement Security
Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) must be held in trust.  Moreover, the persons
responsible for managing those assets have significant fiduciary duties
under ERISA and cannot engage in certain transactions prohibited by
ERISA.  If a pension plan covered by ERISA (an “ERISA Plan”) invests
in a venture fund, then all of the fund’s assets - such as its
investments in portfolio companies - are treated as assets of the ERISA
Plan, absent an exemption.  As a result, the trust requirement applies,
the managing partner of the fund is treated as an ERISA fiduciary, and
the fund must comply with the rules regarding prohibited transactions.

The U.S. Department of Labor, which is charged with administering ERISA,
has issued regulations that contain certain exemptions from the plan
assets rules.  Under one exemption, a venture fund is not deemed to hold
ERISA plan assets if it qualifies as a venture capital operating company
(a “VCOC”).  To qualify as a VCOC, the fund must have at least 50%
of its assets invested in venture capital investments.  An investment in
a portfolio company qualifies as a “venture capital investment” if
the fund obtains certain management rights with respect to the portfolio
company.  “Management rights,” in turn, are defined as contractual
rights running directly from the portfolio company to the fund that give
the fund the right to participate substantially in, or substantially
influence the conduct of, the management of the portfolio company.  In
addition to obtaining management rights, the fund is also required to
actually exercise its management rights with respect to one or more of
its portfolio companies every year.

In order to build a case for an exemption from the ERISA Plan asset
rules, a venture fund will generally ask each of its portfolio companies
to sign a management rights letter in connection with the fund’s
initial investment.  An example of such a letter follows.



[PORTFOLIO COMPANY LETTERHEAD]

[Investor]

	Re:	Management Rights

Ladies and Gentlemen:

	This letter will confirm our agreement that pursuant to and effective
as of your purchase of [________] shares of Series [_] Preferred Stock
of [_____________________] (the “Company”),  [Investor Name] (the
“Investor”) shall be entitled to the following contractual
management rights, in addition to any rights to non-public financial
information, inspection rights, and other rights specifically provided
to all investors in the current financing:

If Investor is not represented on Company’s Board of Directors,
Investor shall be entitled to consult with and advise management of the
Company on significant business issues, including management’s
proposed annual operating plans, and management will meet with Investor
regularly during each year at the Company’s facilities at mutually
agreeable times for such consultation and advice and to review progress
in achieving said plans.

Investor may examine the books and records of the Company and inspect
its facilities and may request information at reasonable times and
intervals concerning the general status of the Company’s financial
condition and operations, provided that access to highly confidential
proprietary information and facilities need not be provided.

If Investor is not represented on the Company’s Board of Directors,
the Company shall, concurrently with delivery to the Board of Directors,
give a representative of Investor copies of all notices, minutes,
consents and other material that the Company provides to its directors,
except that the representative may be excluded from access to any
material or meeting or portion thereof if the Board of Directors
determines in good faith, upon advice of counsel, that such exclusion is
reasonably necessary to preserve the attorney-client privilege, to
protect highly confidential proprietary information, or for other
similar reasons.  Upon reasonable notice and at a scheduled meeting of
the Board or such other time, if any, as the Board may determine in its
sole discretion, such representative may address the Board with respect
to Investor’s concerns regarding significant business issues facing
the Company.

Investor agrees that any confidential information provided to or learned
by it in connection with its rights under this letter shall be subject
to the confidentiality provisions set forth in that certain Investors’
Rights Agreement of even date herewith by and among the Company, the
Investor and other investors.  

The rights described herein shall terminate and be of no further force
or effect upon (a) such time as no shares of the Company’s stock are
held by the Investor or its affiliates; (b) the consummation of the sale
of the Company’s securities pursuant to a registration statement filed
by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in
connection with the firm commitment underwritten offering of its
securities to the general public; or (c) the consummation of a merger
or consolidation of the Company that is effected (i) for independent
business reasons unrelated to extinguishing such rights; and (ii) for
purposes other than (A) the reincorporation of the Company in a
different state; or (B) the formation of a holding company that will be
owned exclusively by the Company’s stockholders and will hold all of
the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company’s successor. 
The confidentiality obligations referenced herein will survive any such
termination.  

Very truly yours,					Agreed and Accepted:

[INVESTOR]						[COMPANY]

By:							By:					

Name:							Name:					

Title:							Title:					

	If for some reason the Investor is not a party to the Investors’
Rights Agreement, you will need to copy the confidentiality provisions
from the Investors’ Rights Agreement here.

Last updated on June 2013

  PAGE  2 

This sample document is the work product of a coalition of attorneys who
specialize in venture capital financings, working under the auspices of
the NVCA.  See the NVCA website for a list of the Working Group members.
 This document is intended to serve as a starting point only, and should
be tailored to meet your specific requirements.  This document should
not be construed as legal advice for any particular facts or
circumstances.  Note that this sample presents an array of (often
mutually exclusive) options with respect to particular deal provisions.

Last updated on June 2013

Last updated on June 2013	  PAGE  i 

Last updated on June 2013	

