This sample document is the product of a Working Group of lawyers who
specialize in venture capital financings, acting under the auspices of
the NVCA.  See the NVCA website for a list of Working Group members. 
This document is intended to serve as a starting point only, and should
be tailored to meet the specific requirements of the State in which you
practice, as well as the opinion practices and procedures of your law
firm.  This document should not be construed as legal advice, nor should
the participation of lawyers in the Working Group be construed as an
indication of their willingness to give or advise the acceptance of this
form of opinion.  

FORM OF LEGAL OPINION

Below is an example of the legal opinions that might be given in a
typical venture-backed preferred stock financing.  As most law firms
have their own forms and the opinions given depend on the specific
circumstances, this is meant only as a starting point for reference
purposes.

NOTE:	 The following assumes a Delaware corporation headquartered in
California.

	Based upon the foregoing and subject to the additional qualifications
set forth below, we are of the opinion that:

	1.	The Company is validly existing as a corporation and in good
standing under Delaware law and is qualified as a foreign corporation
and in good standing in [California].

2.	The Company has the corporate power to execute and deliver the
Transaction Documents in which it is named as a party and to perform its
obligations thereunder.

3.	The Company has duly authorized, executed and delivered the
Transaction Documents in which it is named as a party, and such
Transaction Documents constitute its valid and binding obligations
enforceable against it in accordance with their terms. 

4.	The execution and delivery by the Company of the Transaction
Documents and the performance by the Company of its obligations under
the Transaction Documents, including its issuance and sale of the
Preferred Shares and issuance of shares of Common Stock upon conversion
of the Preferred Shares in accordance with the Company’s certificate
of incorporation (the “Conversion Shares”), do not and will not (i)
violate the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), the law of
[indicate state whose law is generally covered by the opinion letter] or
United States federal law,  (ii) violate any court order, judgment or
decree, if any, listed in [Schedule __ to this opinion letter] [Schedule
__ to the Purchase Agreement],  (iii) result in a breach of, or
constitute a default under, any of the agreements or instruments listed
in Schedule __ to this opinion letter,  or (iv) violate the Company’s
certificate of incorporation or bylaws.

5.	The Company is not required to obtain any consent, approval, license
or exemption by, or order or authorization of, or to make any filing,
recording or registration with, any governmental authority pursuant to
the DGCL, the law of [indicate state whose law is generally covered by
the opinion letter] or United States federal law in connection with the
execution and delivery by the Company of the Transaction Documents in
which it is named as a party or the performance by it of its obligations
other than those that have been obtained or made.

6.	The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of (i)
___________ shares of Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of which
____________ shares are issued and outstanding, and (ii) ________ shares
of Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value, of which ________ shares have been
designated Series A Preferred Stock, ________ shares of which are issued
and outstanding, and __________ shares have been designated Series B
Preferred Stock, none of which are issued and outstanding.   All such
issued and outstanding shares have been duly authorized and validly
issued and are fully paid and nonassessable.

7.	The Preferred Shares have been duly authorized, and when issued,
delivered and paid for in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, will
be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.  The Conversion Shares
have been duly authorized and, when issued in accordance with the
Company's certificate of incorporation upon conversion of the Preferred
Shares, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.  Neither
the issuance or sale of the Preferred Shares nor the issuance of the
Conversion Shares is subject to any preemptive rights under the DGCL or
the Company’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws.

8.	Based on, and assuming the accuracy of, the representations of each
of the Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement, the sale of the Preferred
Shares pursuant to the Purchase Agreement does not, and the issuance of
the Conversion Shares upon conversion of the Preferred Shares in
accordance with the Company’s certificate of incorporation will not
(assuming no commission or other remuneration is paid or given directly
or indirectly for soliciting the conversion), require registration under
the Securities Act., 

	Except as disclosed in Schedule __ to the Purchase Agreement, we are
not representing the Company in any pending litigation in which it is a
named defendant that challenges the validity or enforceability of, or
seeks to enjoin the performance of, the Transaction Documents.

 Opinion recipients sometimes request an opinion that the Company is
“duly incorporated.”  This opinion requires the opinion preparers to
conduct a more extensive inquiry into the past than an opinion that the
“Company is validly existing as a corporation,” and at least in the
venture financing context, often is not cost justified.  See Third-Party
“Closing” Opinions:  A Report of The TriBar Opinion Committee, 53
Bus. Law 591, 651–652 (1998).  Ordinarily, an opinion that a Company
has been “duly organized” should be avoided because of uncertainty
as to what additional matters, if any, it covers.

 Opinion preparers should take care that the Company’s certificate of
incorporation is not included in the definition of “Transaction
Documents.”  Inclusion of the certificate of incorporation would be
both illogical (e.g., in the case of the due execution and delivery
opinion) and troublesome (e.g., in the case of the enforceability
opinion).

 Opinion recipients sometimes ask that this opinion be broadened, for
example to cover the Company’s corporate power to conduct its
business.  If given, this broader opinion typically is based on a
description in a disclosure document or an officer’s certificate.

 Note that this opinion covers only obligations of the Company and,
therefore, does not cover obligations of other parties to the
Transaction Documents, such as investors and other stockholders. 
Sometimes, an opinion recipient requests that the enforceability opinion
be expanded to cover those parties to give the recipient comfort that
important obligations, such as promises by those parties to vote stock
in favor of the election of directors designated by the recipient, also
are enforceable.  Since the law of many states permits the enforcement
of promises to vote stock, in appropriate circumstances, counsel to the
Company might be able to give that opinion based on an assumption as to
status and due authorization, execution and delivery in the case of
parties that are entities, and legal capacity, due execution and
delivery in the case of parties who are natural persons.  Such an
opinion, however, may be of limited value to an opinion recipient whose
principal concern is the availability of specific performance as a
remedy, since equitable remedies are excluded from the opinion’s
coverage by the equitable principles limitation.

 Often, the law covered by the opinion letter is the same as the law
chosen as the governing law in the Transaction Documents.  When that is
not the case, apart from obtaining an opinion of counsel in the state
whose law is chosen as the governing law, several alternatives are
available.  These include giving an opinion on whether the law chosen as
the governing law will be given effect under the law covered by the
opinion or, alone or in combination with the choice-of-law opinion,
giving an opinion on the enforceability of the Transaction Documents as
though the law covered by the opinion governed the Transaction
Documents.  If the Company is incorporated in Delaware rather than the
state whose law is generally covered by the opinion letter, the opinion
letter typically will state that it also covers the DGCL.  Unless
otherwise expressly stated, the enforceability opinion will cover the
DGCL to the extent the internal affairs doctrine of the state whose law
is generally covered by the enforceability opinion deems the DGCL
applicable to the agreement.  Among the provisions of the agreement to
which the DGCL is likely to be deemed applicable are provisions relating
to the governance of the Company.

 For the law covered, see part II of the ABA Legal Opinion Principles,
53 Bus. Law. 831 (1998).  Opinion recipients and preparers should agree
on whether this opinion should be drafted to cover industry-specific
laws that are applicable to the business of the Company and could have
applicability to the transaction but are not generally reviewed in
connection with the types of transactions covered by the Transaction
Documents, such as laws applicable to companies in the financial
services industry. 

 Consideration should be given to which contracts should be covered in
light of the cost constraints of many venture financings.

 Securities law approvals and filings are understood as a matter of
customary practice not to be covered by this opinion unless referred to
specifically.  Some lawyers, however, choose to make this explicit by
including an exception (such as: “, except [the filing of a Form D
pursuant to Regulation D of the Securities Act] and the notice filing
required by [Section 25102(f) or 25102.1 of the California Corporate
Securities Law of 1968, as amended]”) or a statement indicating that
the only opinion covering securities laws is in numbered paragraph 8. 
Such an exclusion does not mean that other laws customarily understood
to be excluded are covered.

 Because of its factual nature, some law firms are unwilling to give an
opinion on the number of outstanding shares.  To avoid any
misunderstanding that an opinion on the number of outstanding shares is
in essence anything more than a factual confirmation, law firms that are
willing to give that opinion often do so only if they also are giving an
opinion on the valid issuance of the Company’s outstanding shares (see
note 10).

 Because the opinion on the valid issuance of the outstanding shares
will require a review of each issuance of shares, in many situations it
will not be cost justified.  For a description of the work customarily
required to be performed to give this opinion, see Special Report of the
TriBar Opinion Committee:  Duly Authorized Opinions on Preferred Stock,
63 Bus. Law. 921 (2008).      

Opinion recipients sometimes ask an opinion giver to state that, to the
opinion giver’s knowledge, the Company has no outstanding options,
warrants or other rights to acquire Company stock other than as
disclosed in the Transaction Documents.  Many law firms are unwilling to
give this opinion because it constitutes negative assurance on a factual
matter they rarely are in a position to confirm.  When, however, the
opinion is given, the opinion letter should describe what the opinion
preparers have done to support it.

 Although understood as a matter of customary practice to be covered by
the “duly authorized” opinion, some opinion recipients ask opinion
givers to state expressly that the rights, powers, and preferences of
the Preferred Shares set forth in the certificate of incorporation do
not violate the DGCL or the Company’s certificate of incorporation. 
Note that the “duly authorized” opinion, whether or not it includes
that additional statement, is not an opinion on the enforceability of
the terms of the Preferred Shares.  See Special Report of the TriBar
Opinion Committee:  Duly Authorized Opinions on Preferred Stock, 63 Bus.
Law. 921 (2008).

 Because shares may be issued in the future under antidilution clauses
or otherwise, as a matter of customary practice this opinion is
understood to mean that sufficient authorized shares are available on
the date of the opinion letter, not that sufficient authorized shares
necessarily will be available on the conversion date.  To make the
limited nature of the opinion clear, some opinion preparers include an
express assumption regarding the availability of sufficient authorized
shares in the future.

Opinion recipients sometimes ask for an opinion that a specified number
of shares (at least sufficient to cover issuance of the Conversion
Shares) has been reserved for issuance.  Many firms will not give this
opinion because the concept of reservation, at least in Delaware and
California, has no statutory meaning and the issue of the number of
shares the Company has committed to issue is essentially factual (see
note 9).  Some firms will, however, give what is often an acceptable
alternative, namely, an opinion that the board of directors has duly
adopted a resolution reserving a specified number of shares for issuance
on conversion of the Preferred Shares and that the resolution remains in
full force and effect.

 Even though a valid issuance opinion could not be given on shares
issued in violation of preemptive rights granted by statute or the
Company’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws, opinion recipients
sometimes request an opinion that expressly addresses the absence of
those rights.  Such an opinion does not cover contractual rights (which
may be covered by the no breach or default opinion in numbered opinion
4(iii) above).

 Ordinarily, no registration opinions covering the future issuance of
the Conversion Shares are based on an assumption that the conditions for
availability of the exemption provided by Section 3(a)(9) from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 will be
satisfied at the time of conversion.  In the factual situation covered
by this form, the only condition that needs to be assumed is that no
commission or other remuneration will have been paid when the shares are
converted.  As in this form, some opinion givers state this assumption
expressly.  Other opinion givers do not for various reasons, including
their belief that satisfaction of the matters assumed is so well
understood that it does not have to be stated.  No registration opinions
are discussed in Subcommittee on Securities Law Opinions, Committee on
Federal Regulation of Securities, ABA Section of Business Law, No
Registration Opinions, 63 Bus. Law. 187 (2007).

 As provided in this form, the no registration opinion is usually given
in reliance on appropriate representations and warranties set forth in
the Purchase Agreement (or information obtained in other ways, such as
back-up certificates from the Company) relating to the absence of
“general solicitation” and “general advertising” and prior sales
of similar securities that could be integrated with the offering covered
by the opinion.  (If a placement agent is involved, the opinion also is
usually based on representations and warranties of, or a certificate
from, the placement agent.)  Some opinion givers expressly exclude
coverage of the no “general solicitation” and “general
advertising” requirement from the opinion (that requirement is
contained in Rule 502(c) of Regulation D and is understood to be a
condition of compliance with the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act).  See Subcommittee on Securities Law Opinions,
Committee on Federal Regulation of Securities, ABA Section of Business
Law, No Registration Opinions, 63 Bus. Law. 187 (2007).  

 When warrants, options or other rights to acquire Company stock are
exercisable upon the payment of cash, the no registration opinion can
raise difficult issues because the exemption under Section 3(a)(9) of
the Securities Act would not be available (other than possibly if the
warrants, options or other rights are exercised on a net exercise basis)
and the availability of another exemption, such as under Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act, would depend on the facts at the time of exercise. 
Accordingly, many firms will not give a no registration opinion on the
issuance of shares upon the future exercise of warrants, options or
other rights.  Some firms, however, will give the opinion based on an
express assumption that the warrants, options or other rights were
exercised and the underlying shares issued at the closing of the sale of
the Preferred Shares.

 This version of the "no-litigation" confirmation is narrower than the
version that historically has been given, which covered litigation
against the company generally.  Because of its factual nature and in
light of recent cases brought against law firms by recipients of
no-litigation confirmations, many law firms no longer are willing to
give the broader no-litigation confirmation, and some firms are
unwilling to give any confirmation relating to litigation.

Although this form obviates the need for the phrase “to our
knowledge” or a variant of it, other forms include that phrase.  When
they do, a definition of “knowledge” normally should be included to
avoid misunderstanding as to the meaning of the term.  An example of a
definition that is derived from the ABA Legal Opinion Principles (see
note 5) (and that would apply if no definition were included) is:

When the phrase “to our knowledge” or an equivalent phrase is used
in this opinion, its purpose is to limit the statements it qualifies to
the actual knowledge of the lawyers in this firm responsible for
preparing this opinion letter after such inquiry as they deemed
appropriate.

Some opinions preparers include in the definition in place of “this
opinion letter” the phrase “the particular opinion or confirmation
containing that reference.”  Also, some opinion preparers refer to
“conscious awareness” instead of “actual knowledge.”

In preparing the confirmation, the opinion preparers normally would
conduct an inquiry of those lawyers in their firm who the opinion
preparers believe are reasonably likely to have information not
otherwise known to them that is called for by the confirmation.  As a
matter of customary practice, the confirmation is understood not to
cover information known to other lawyers in the firm but not known to
the opinion preparers after such inquiry.  Depending on the
circumstances and the wording of the confirmation, the opinion preparers
also might make inquiry of appropriate officials of the Company.  In
preparing a no litigation confirmation, the opinion preparers are not
required as a matter of customary diligence to check court or other
public records.  Although not necessary, some opinion preparers choose
to make this clear, for example, by stating expressly that they did not
examine court or other public records.

If the opinion preparers are aware that, unknown to the opinion
recipient, a material legal proceeding is being handled by another firm,
they should consider whether providing a confirmation (however worded)
regarding litigation without noting the existence of that legal
proceeding would be misleading to the opinion recipient.

  

(continued...)

(continued...)

  DOCPROPERTY "DocID" \* MERGEFORMAT  LIBC/3213362.17 

Last updated June 2013

  DOCPROPERTY "DocID" \* MERGEFORMAT  LIBC/3213362.17 

